Hello and welcome.
This is a refactor lecture that is going to allow us to put a weapons script directly on equipped weapons
which will allow us eventually to trigger events via the fighter on a particular weapon.
Let's dive in.
So what are the options for having our weapon hit.
Sound effects.
There are a couple I can think of.
First of all we could put an audio source on the player's hand in the player prefab or the character
prefab that would allow us to emanate the audio from somewhere near where the weapon is going to be
equipped.
Now the problem with this is that we would need to swap out the audio clips depending on which weapon
is currently equipped.
Perhaps a better solution would be to put the audio source on the weapon prefab itself then the weapon
prefab can have different audio clips depending on which weapon it is a sword would have sword type
clashes and other weapons a hammer might have a weapon type audio clip.
But the problem with this one is that we currently have no way to call a hit event or any kind of audio
source play from within this weapon prefab because at the moment the weapon prefab is just a dumb game
object instantiation and we've got no way of calling into it.
So let's have a look at how things are currently set up.
We've got a fighter which references a weapon conflict remember multiple fighters might be referencing
this weapon conflict because multiple fighters might have a sword for example.
Now that weapon conflict itself references a and equipped weapon prefab and what happens is that when
we equip a weapon that weapon prefab gets instantiated and attached to a particular character to the
Web the player or the enemy.
And so each character gets their own instance of a prefab but they don't get their own instance of a
weapon Conficker.
So what we'd like to do is have a way for our fighter to communicate with that particular instance of
the weapon so that they can tell it to launch sound effects or maybe particle effects and things like
that.
So the way we're gonna do that is by adding a weapon component onto an equipped prefab and giving the
fighter a link to it.
Now in this light you're going to be adding the weapon component and the next we're going to add the
link from fighter to the weapon.
Now you have those beady eyed among you may have noticed that I've changed the names around here for
this slide rather than we've got weapon is currently the name of Ask critical object.
So we're gonna have to do a little bit of renaming so you can follow me along with this one.
What we're gonna do is open up our weapon scriptural object and we're going to rename that first of
all we're going to rename the file over in unity.
So let's go and find ourselves scripts and then combat and we've got weapon we're going to rename it
to weapon config.
Copy that so we can have exactly the same in other places and then it has been deleted and we'll see.
So make sure you refresh the tab and open up the actual weapon config tab over here and then we can
do a rename in here I'm gonna use F2 to rename weapon to weapon config and it's gonna do it across classes
as you can see that's changed a few tabs it's changed the weapon pick up and it's changed the fighter
tab and I have to make sure I go and save those and if I go back into visual studio I think nothing
Visual Studio into unity.
Nothing's changed if I go and hit play I should still be able to equip things like swords so let's pick
up a sword Yep I can equip that.
Okay.
So the next step is to update that link of equipped prefab is currently pointing to a game object which
is a prefab and we want to make that more specific.
We want to say that any game object that we can equip has to have a weapon script on it a weapon components.
Now this weapon component does not yet exist.
That is going to be your task to go ahead and create a weapon component.
You are going to create the weapon component.
Put it on all the prefabs of the equip prefabs that we are using and re link.
The scripts will object because once you change the component type it is going to have a problem and
need re linking in the scripts all objects of those weapons are the sword the bow.
And so.
So pause the video and have a go at doing this little bit of a refactor.
Welcome back.
So we're gonna add a new script first and foremost and a creator in combats see sharp scripts called
weapon and then we can go over to v s code and look for our weapon so and I want to put it straight
away in a namespace so it's going to be namespace RPG dot combat and it is going to not need the start
an update at this point but later on what we aren't gonna do is gonna have a public void on hit function
in here which is going to allow us to call to the weapon from the fighter when it has been hit and trigger
unity events within the weapon itself that could trigger off audio sources and so on and so forth that
I'm just putting that in for now so you can see how it's going to be used later on.
Now if we go back to our weapon config you can see that link to weapon is successful.
We have got an error further down which is with the instantiate call and now this is because we're instantiating
something of type weapon and the return value should be of weapon from instantiate and instead it is
of type game object.
So let's just change that to weapon which means that now when we're doing weapon name that will be changed
the name of the component we don't want that we want to be changed the name of the game object to keep
the same behavior as we were having before.
If you don't change that over its game object then what you're gonna see is that later on ADD deletion
code is not gonna work properly because we didn't actually rename the game object we retain the component
and so on.
So let's go back over to unity just do final play test here.
Go ahead and hit play.
Go and pick up a sword and the sword hasn't actually picked up.
Reason being that we need to re link stuff.
So let's go and find ask ritual objects and resort weapons resources and we've got first of all the
sword.
So the sword needs to be linked up to the equipped sword.
It's been unlinked.
And the reason it won't let me link it obviously is because they equipped sword does not yet have the
weapon component added to it so let's do that for the equipped sword.
We also need to do that for the equipped bow so I can open up the equipped bow prefab and the weapon
script that to then go back to our resources get our sword and put the equipped sword as the prefab
then it will let us and then do the same thing for our both of our bows the blue and red projectile
bow and we can select them both to edit them at the same time and then drop in the equipped bow as well.
So now if we go ahead and hit play hopefully we have reeling things so we can go and pick up a sword.
Yep we can pick up sword yes we can pick up a bow and it replaces the sword that we were holding success.
We've had a minor refactor that allows us to put scripts on these instances of our weapons.
Now in the next lecture we're going to look at having that link from fighter so that we can actually
call a sound effect see that.